Fuel for life. For example, we humans right now,
we're under the influence of another end of the world.
Religion looking toward a different kind of paradise it's called
environmentalism. And it says that we humans are causing climate change,
but that's, this is a little silly. We,
humans may be contributing to climate change,
but climate change has been the norm on this planet for 4.5 billion years.
One of those sacred science subjects, that's almost like a,
you're not allowed to talk about scientific Jesus. Like you cannot question the,
the ancient squirrel and it's an end times belief system.
Because it says the world's about to end because of things we've done because
we've sin.
And if we simply sacrifice to the goddess of nature to gay,
um, the universal we'll go back to being a stable climatically,
stable garden of Eden. While I got news for you, this,
this planet has never been climatically stable in the very beginning.
It wheeled around its axis once every six hours.
That means that we pick any point on the surface.
It was in this poisonous stuff called radiation
for three hours. Then it was yanked into darkness,
which is equally destructive.
And the temperature would go up a minimum of 86 degrees, every whoops,
up and down, 86 degrees, every three hours that's climate change.
Plus it was on a tilt and it was rotating around the sun.
And as it rotated, the climate went through hideous changes, right? But.
This is way in the past. And what people are concerned with,
what our role in what impact humans.
Doesn't matter. What we need to be after is climate state.
If we really want the climate to be the way it wasn't 1650 before the industrial
revolution, that's a human choice.
That's bio genic in origin, and we need to acknowledge that.
That's what we have decided.
And now we're going to develop climate stabilization questions.
What, why is it such a sacred subject? If you, what you've just said,
even just questioning for a moment and saying that environmental ism is a type
of religion, climate denialist boom. You could be labeled with that.
And then people would love to break it down in a very simple one sentence
statement and call you climate denialists right.
Climate change. Denialist that son of a.
And then next thing you know what people will repeat that it doesn't have to
have any.
Sign you any more for a book confronting.
Any complexity or context in, in what you're trying to say.
They don't want the subtle nuance of what you're trying to express. Well.
There's a blunt nuance.
We have to develop climate stabilization technologies of taking carbon out of
the atmosphere is a carpet stabilization technology then so be it.
But we have to develop others because this,
this globe goes through ice ages and global warming. Okay. Do you think.
The answer is in technology? Yes.
That's what the answer has always been for humans. I mean, why were we born?
Look, we have this chemical in our gut called the cystic Keenan,
and it only goes off when we eat meat.
So we're built to eat meat and it's a bonding hormone, oxytocin.
It brings people together. Um,
so if you're having a good meat meal with a bunch of people,
this is a chemical linearity that says these are good people stick with them.
Don't tell the vegans this. Yeah, well, so how, why,
if we were born to meat don't we have claws.
Why don't we have ripping things? Why don't we have,
because we figured out a way to cook it because we figured out a way.
To make clothes right out, a way to use skins.
We figured out a way to figure out a way to isolate ourselves from the
environment in terms of housing and control of fire. Got.
It. And that means that we were born naked.
We were naked apes for a reason because we are homo Tula
kiss, whatever that word would be. We are the people of tools. Um,
and we developed the first stone tool to the best of our knowledge,
approximately 3.1 to 3.4 million years ago,
long before we became modern humans.
So we were born in this peculiar way at that is naked and without claws
and without ripping things, um, after we developed the tools,
it took like fire and cooking, which you just cited, um,
to allow us to have artificial claws, artificial, repping,
fangs, to cook our meals. Um,
the big conclusion of a book that I've just read on what makes us different from
a neuroscientist.
She's the neuroscientist who corrected the standard figure for the number of
neurons in the brain from a hundred billion to 86 billion by actually counting
them. She says, what made us human was cooking? Just what you said.
Um, because when you cook,
you have you liberate a whole mess of calories and nutritive
sources that are not available to a gorilla
that's eating leaves. And how do we know that?
Because the gorilla is born with a Potbelly, the size of a Franklin stove, um,
because it needs this huge digestive apparatus in order to handle those leaves,
to break them down into food, right? Well, when you cook,
you don't need that huge gut. Now the bacteria or the,
the ape is not able to go very far.
The gorilla he's certainly can't migrate once. You know,
you see Jane Goodall and she is pleading for us to save the habitat of the
chimpanzees.
Have you ever seen Jane Goodall pleading for us to save the habitat of baboons?
Never the baboons or the rats of Africa,
baboons are extraordinarily adaptive. They're extraordinarily curious.
They're always finding new environments and figuring out ways to turn them into
food. Chimpanzees don't have that quality.
The reason we need to save their environment is because they're so dumb as a
group because the collective intelligence of a group of chimpanzees is so
low that now that they're adapted to one environment,
that's the only environment they can adapt to.
Whereas baboons who have smaller individual brains have greater
collective [inaudible].
Do you see now baboons have domesticated dogs? No. Yeah.
Yeah.
They divest domesticated house dogs and figured out a way to keep the dogs near
them so they could be alerted to when some tutors are in.
Amazing, crazy.
Kidnap these dogs and hold them hostage and feed them. Right.
And the dogs just kind of learn to hang.
Around them. Well, they're ideal hunting companions. It's very bizarre. Yeah.
It's what we did once upon a time. And you could say very easily,
it wasn't us who tamed dogs. It was dogs who teamed us. Um,
look how well we treat them.
Yeah, here it is right here. So they hold on to these dogs.
That dogs try to get away.
Oh, is that a puppy and a shoulder? It's a puppy on the ground. Oh, I see.
And they, they eventually stay with them in these camps,
but they hold them hostage, look amazed, dragging this dog rise. Not killing it,
not eating it,
but they have somehow or another figured out that if they keep these dogs around
long enough, the dogs will bark when intruders and predators are near.
Crazy. Absolutely amazing really crazy stuff. But remember that was,
we were just looking at baboons and baboons have a brain smaller than the brain
of a chimpanzee. If you've ever seen a chimpanzee do that. No, no.
Chimpanzees are not highly adaptive.
What's the measure of intelligence ability to adapt. Yeah. Okay.
So let's see how we measure the intelligence of bacteria.
Knowing that bacteria work in a group of 7 trillion and have a collective
intelligence within that group.
And they have a collective multi colony intelligence because they,
once they develop certain genetic tricks,
they pass the tricks around and little tiny envelopes for all practical
purposes. Um, so they're constantly sharing new bacterial tricks.
So we are told by the environmentalist, the new end times movement,
um, that we have used up all the resources on this planet.
We have vastly overburdened. This planet. We are eating it out of existence,
but bacteria are 12 miles beneath our feet right now.
And they are turning raw rock granite into bio stuff.
Now, if the task of life is to kidnap seduce and recruit as many dead Adams as
possible into the grand project of life,
who's doing the best job right now who recognizes that for every ounce of
living stuff on the planet,
there are a hundred million ounces of dead stuff waiting to be kidnapped and
seduced and recruited into the grand project of life bacteria.
Yet it, our bacteria nature, you bet your.
So what is nature telling us through these bacteria?
You have a hundred trillion, more ounces, yes. A hundred trillion,
more ounces,
or a hundred million more ounces of dead stuff for every living ounce you've
got. And your obligation on behalf of life is to do what the bacteria are doing.
Kidnap seduce and recruit as many dead animals as possible and bring them into
the project of life.
Use technology to stabilize the environment if that's what we choose. Yes.
And that is what we've chosen. And, but people are not regarding it as a choice.
They're regarding it as something imposed on them by a higher force, right? No,
I'm sorry. Gay mother nature is not a higher force. Mother nature is a.
Mother nature throws every conceivable obstacle or path and she can't help it.
Why? Because our planet, in addition to the fact that we are on a tilted axis,
so we go through a climate change called summer, fall,
winter and spring every single year. And it's a pretty violent climate change.
And we have a planet that's been ice ballers snowballs twice and its history.
The fact is the planet is on a trajectory on a path,
on a voyage,
on a mission that is scarier than the mission of Frodo. The Hobbit.
It is circling the core of the galaxy,
approximately every 235 million years and Izzy,
as it goes through that long voyage around the center of the galaxy,
it goes through spiral,
arms of galaxies that change our climate dramatically.
It gathers something like a hundred trillion, tons of cosmic dust,
um, per year. And at certain points,
it goes through clouds of cosmic fluff that triple the amount of that
dust that we gathered, which changes the climate considerably.
And we go through a Milankovitch cycle. It changes the climate every 22,000,
40,110,000 years. Uh, not precisely,
but in that range. So yes, if we want to stabilize the climate,
take responsibility for your decision already admit that this is a
biogenic decision and then go after climate stabilization
technologies. Yes. Try removing carbon from the atmosphere, see if it works.
But in the long haul,
we are on a 12,000 year passage.
And when school climate has been relatively stable, that's not normal.
The norm is rapid climate change, much more rapidly than we've seen.
And I sages and they alter. So we better well learn these things. Now,
when I was in Japan a few years ago, um,
in a conference about harvesting solar power in space and transplanting it down
to earth,
which is carbon neutral and a source of such tremendous amounts of power,
that defies description, there was a loan from the European space agency.
And she said, well,
if you guys are going to build these giant solar harvesting farms,
these five mile by five mile arrays of photovoltaic panels,
when you see a hurricane heading for Jamaica,
send down a laser beam,
lays the outer edges of the hurricane.
So that you've change the heat at a certain point on that hurricane and
redirect it. So it doesn't hit your Medica. So it goes harmlessly out to sea.
Well, that's the beginning of harnessing these things,
harnessing disasters as energy opportunities. Now,
have we ever done that? Well, what about fire?
If you'd been the first one to start playing with fire,
your mama would have told you, look,
you see all those dead animals in there that have been roasted and barbecued by
this forest fire. You want to become one of them,
put that back where it belongs and fire saved us, um,
at the heart of a jet at the heart of a piston and the person of a car.
What do we have? Explosions, explosions.
That's one of the most devastating catastrophes. We can imagine an explosion.
It.
Causes this very rigid.
It's I don't want to say scientific dogma, but dogma,
in terms of the way you're allowed to talk about climate change.
Well.
There are certain aspects of science that are religion because we,
science people are built with the same super normal responses in us that the
flying saucer people have in them.
And that the Christians who still believe in the coming of the kingdom of,
oh God, you can't.
Debate this. This is not something like, even I've said so far, is, is outside.
Yeah. A little bit absolute Harris. Like people would get angry at.
You. One person did, there was a, uh, an astronomer, um,
who would go on up to Canada for God knows what reason he wrote a book on the
evolution of the cosmos. I thought it was brilliant. My friend Eshelman Jacob,
my colleague,
who was the head of the physics department at the university of Tel Aviv and the
head of the physical association, you know,
the association of all physicists in Israel,
where they have some pretty good physicists said, oh, Lee will talk to you. Um,
he's very open guy. And when I got hold of Lee, I forget his last name,
but you would recognize it. Lee sent me a note saying, well,
it's a pleasure to meet you.
But that article that you wrote in the wall street journal about climate was
unfortunate. Uh, it was something a little harsher than that. Um,
meaning you have sinned and,
and I watched this movement develop from the beginning and it developed by using
conformity enforcers. Well then Al gore movie tipped it over the top.
It helped a lot and unfortunate.
Truth that, that just people had. They realized they had, I mean,
if you want a virtue signal, you got to get on board.
Well, um,
what really put the environmental movement on the map was earth day.
And the guy who pulled that off really pulled off an amazing PR stunt.
That was just an astonishing PR stunt. And.
That's what started off. Yes. Yes. Because.
In the 1950s, when I was the head of the program, Kemeny at my high school.
I programmed in a guy who talked to us about what was being done to whales.
And the pictures were horrifying. The sky was a giant.
He was about six foot two. And, and in those days that was really, really tall.
And he was the most severe person I'd ever met.
He walked in without acknowledging me. I had booked him at all.
He had a frown on his face. That was unbelievable.
He walked out with that same serious frown uncompromising,
without saying goodbye, without saying,
thank you without any of the normal social graces.
And he didn't have a name for what he was doing.
Conservation was the name of what he was doing back then.
And it was earth day that put another word on the map, environmental ism,
and that got environmental ism into first grades and second grades and fourth
grades when kids are at an imprinting age when their brains are liberal
relieving fashioned around some of the key things that they absorb at that age.
When we talk about impressionable,
we're talking about a certain element of the morphology of the brain that wraps
itself around certain things, and then never lets them go.
And environmental ism was built to get into the brains of young people and never
leave.
And eventually environmental ism developed its own end of the
earth scenario.
It tried to develop one in 1968 when Paul Erlick,
who was a butterfly specialist, um,
said that by 1980, which remember in 1968 was 12 years away.
So that's like my talking about something that will happen in 2030.
It seemed a long ways away. And he said by 2000,
by 1980,
we would get to the point where there were so many people on the planet that
we'd have to stand on each other's shoulders. There would be no room for us.
We would vastly outstrip the carrying capacity of the environment.
Meaning the food supply would run out.
It would not be able to keep up with our population growth.
And as a consequence in the early 1980s,
people would die by the hundreds of millions in India and China,
and even the United States. Now, rumor back to those days, Joel,
I don't know if you know the history of it. You were probably born after it,
but did remember all the hundreds of millions of people dying in India and China
and the United States.
Remember how your parents had to stand on each other's shoulders in order to
find room to live. I don't recall that you don't, I just what's wrong with you.
I don't understand.
So much like the apocalyptic cults, they moved the goalposts.
Yeah, exactly.
And so now it's climate change and originally it was global warming.
And then they smartened up to the fact that they better cover their just in case
we had an ice age instead of warming and glass.
Wat is the planet of global warming and climate change.
This one. Yeah. Big time. So they are right and they are wrong.
Right? We need to do these climate stabilization technologies.
We must, I mean, we've been doing them. You said it best.
We've been doing ever since we invented the fur coat,
which allowed us to get out of Africa and go to the forest ends of Asia.
When we were still far from being humans, modern humans,
that the technology of the cave and beyond that,
the technology of the hot,
all these are climate stabilization technologies on a small scale.
Now we need to do climate stabilization technology on a big soul scale. No,
that does not mean that we have to put software droplets into the atmosphere to
keep the sun from warming the surface of the earth that we so stupid.
It's ridiculous. It's not a reversible move,
but if you have a laser for harnessing space,
solar power and you use it to redirect hurricanes,
you can see what worked the first time and try something different the second
time. And the third time until you perfect it,
you can't do that with sulfur docks, the droplets in the atmosphere.
It's one of the stupidest things I've ever heard in my life,
but that's the first solution technological solution.
I'm out of all of the climate people's mouths,
but we need to do what they're talking about.
We just have to take ownership of it.